[continuous Russian walla].
[siren wailing]
[speak Dutch]
Keep the change.
[male voice over PTA
system, unintelligible]
Alright!
[screams]
I know, I know,
I know, a gun.
It's dangerous
for no one
except you.
You know what
I want, don't you?
Yes sir.
You're wasting time.
Don't fuck with me!
Open it.
Open it!
Open itl!
Give me
what I want.
I-I don't have
anything else.
(Keith)
Man's offering you all
that money, /'d take it.
When I need financial
advice, I'll call
my broker.
I'm just
sayin' is all.
Whatever. Take
off your coat.
Take off your coat!!
Oh. Now how
hard was that?
Excuse me.
Mister, I thought
I told you--
What the--!!
[shouting]
(officer No. 1)
Go! Move!
Everybody down/
Move! Out of
the way! Move!
[groans]
Go! Go! Gol!
Suspect white or
Hispanic male, wearing
a reflector vest.
He's on top of the
cars. All units at
Vernon Jackson.
(officer No. 2)
NYPD!
Everybody down!
Stay down!
Other end!
[screams]
[groan]
[groans]
(officer No. 1)
Move! Move!
Everybody down,
Face down on
the platform, now.
Come on, face down.
Everybody off
the train.
Face down.
Come on,
get down.
(Baker)
Officer!
Come on guys,
get down.
Down. Drop down.
Down, get down.
Get down.
Search the tracks.
He went down the tunnel?
Check the tunnel,
check the roof.
Come on, people,
come down on the
ground now.
He jumped.
He was on top
of the roof.
This train
is closed.
Nobody gets on.
Sir, I need you
to calm down.
Get these
people moving.
(Voutjritsas)
Stop right there.
Punk's got balls.
But no
positive identification?
No, there's another
camera pointing at
the platform.
Michaels, stop
it right there.
You see
what I see?
Maybe.
That's him, Lieutenant.
That's who?
How long
you been
a detective?
Uh, 11
months, sir.
I'm 22 years
in robbery
and homicide.
One of your
sub-categories of
robbery is art theft.
There's a lof of
that in the Apple.
Are you aware of that?
I guess
so, yeah.
I wasn't. When
I was your age,
I was quite happy
with regular murder
and mayhem.
Lieutenant Weber
minored in art
history at Fordham.
Anyway, the Chief
starts callin' me
Lieutenant Picasso,
and puts me in
charge every time
there is the theft
of as much as
an Etch a Sketch.
Two decades, /'ve
been putting ‘em
all away.
Everybody but him.
Keith Ripley. He's
the best there is.
Howdy, Keith.
You've been bad boy.
Perhaps I could
give you 15.
No. That is
not possible.
I wouldn't take
less than 100.
Oh, man.
I'm just
saying is all.
You.
Mind if I
borrow this?
Well, I may have
wanted to use it.
But yours will do.
Will you please
put down my gun?
There's one thing
you should be
aware of, Gabriel.
Or do you prefer
Sefior Martin?
The police cannot
arrest you for
armed robbery
if your gun
isn't loaded.
Your point?
Think I'd
walk around with
a loaded shotgun?
Let's see.
[click]
You could've checked.
Why? You have my
diamonds, my score,
my money.
Enjoy. Nice
meeting you
both. Bye.
By the way--I1 was
going to ask
for 125.
I'm just
saying, is all.
Gabriel, stay.
Why? What
else do
you want?
You gonna
shoot me now?
Well in as much
as you did steal
the diamonds,
I figure it's only
fair to share the
proceeds with you.
So to what do
I owe this act
of generosity?
I have a proposition
I wish to discuss
with you.
So, how did you
know I would
come here?
As well as
my name?
It's part of
the proposition.
[screeching tires]
Aw, shit.
[groan]
(Keith)
Come on.
Take jt easy.
Nicky would
like his money.
Ask him.
Thank you.
This is something between
you and them, got nothing
to do with mel!
Everything does now.
Call this interest.
Nicky's tired of
waiting for you.
[speaks Russian]
[groan]
You must have
very bad karma.
I actually don't
believe in it.
Look. About
this propo--
No, no, no!
You are totally out
of your mind!
Good night.
[groan]
Hey! Here's
your karma.
What was in the
other envelope?
Your cut.
Now you've
got mine.
Whatever.
Think about it.
Yeah, sure, yeah.
Hmm.
Now, what do
you want?
A partner.
What do you think
I was doing on
that train?
I was watching
your work.
I've been your shadow
ever since you
got to town.
So why were
you in my town,
robbing subways?
It's hurricane season
in Miami. I don't
like hurricanes.
Or you didn't
feel like going
back to Angola.
It's over.
Lesson learned.
Look. Gabriel
Martin is a
rock star.
So, why were you holding
open mike night on
the subway
for a lousy
hundred grand?
Two reasons. Yes.
Miami was getting
too hot
and perhaps you
can relate to this:
sometimes--
sometimes you
just need to
feel the rush.
The juice.
Yeah. You know
what I mean.
Yesterday, you took
down two jewelers
for a few stones
from Romanov's.
My idea is
Romanov's itself.
[snorts]
Please.
Specifically two
Faberge eggs worth
20 million dollars.
Each.
It's a
two-man job.
Do I have
your attention?
Wait here.
I hear they
prefer cash.
Or your firstborn.
Why don't you try
The Standard instead?
Jealous?
Of who?
The mystery bandit.
I'm afraid that
type of thing
is not my style.
Well, I think
this guy's got
panache. Guts.
And a
passing resemblance,
at least in body type.
Well, you don't have
to rob trains to
have panache.
Or guts.
But you got
to admit,
that kind of
thing immediately
brands you.
[speaks Russian]
My treat. Too painful
watching you attempt
to read Cyrillic.
Qh, no,
I was
just, uh--
looking at
the picture.
So you
are jealous.
Yes. You got
me there.
Absolutely.
I got to get this
Chinese food to
my boss, so, um--
some other time.
When some
other time?
I'll call you.
But you don't
have my number
or know my name.
I guess
that could
be a problem.
(Keith)
Gabriel!
Oh, shit.
Are you with him?
I don't know.
Should 1? More
or less. Yes. I am.
What do
you want?
Can't I bring
my goddaughter a
birthday present?
My birthday
was last month.
It was two weeks
ago. I'm sorry
it's late.
Alex, it's
just a present.
No strings.
No thanks.
Well, it was nice to
have almost met
you, Gabriel.
Gaby.
It's a shame you don't
keep a higher class
of company.
Don't even
think about it.
Think about what?
Going anywhere
near her.
I'll rip
your heart
out, I mean it.
It looks like it's your
heart she's not
so fond of.
You were warned.
Let's go.
(Gaby)
I thought you said
the target was Romanov's.
This is research.
Research?
Oh, wow.
They're absolutely stunning.
They are.
Between 1885
and 1916,
Faberge produced 50
of these Easter eggs
for the Empress.
And her daughter-in-law,
the Czarina Alexandra.
Should I take notes?
Will there be a quiz?
No quiz. But
there will be
a test.
Okay. The Faberges
are all made of precious
metals and fine jewels.
Every one a
unique masterpiece.
Indeed.
Most are on display
in the Kremlin.
And the rest in
private collections,
museums, or lost.
In this case,
at Romanov's.
Who is
your buyer?
You don't
want to know.
I'm stealing 40 million
dollars worth of eggs,
so I want to know.
I also want to
know why these
particular eggs
are even worth
40 million dollars.
‘Cause no one
knows they exist.
Oh. The so-called
mystery eggs.
Mm-hmm.
Yeah, I've
heard rumors
but I thought
it was just
a myth.
Last year,
they turned up.
At Romanov's.
So how do
you know this?
I was partners with
a man named Victor
Korolenko. Alex's father.
He was in tight
with the Russians.
What they knew,
he knew.
So, why aren't you
pulling this job
with him?
Let's just
say he's no
longer around.
Leave it at that.
He's gone.
You're here.
Now we just
have to deliver.
Ripley.
Why?
Why risk your
freedom at all?
This will not
be anything
close to easy.
You are not in
jail in the present.
Are you not,
uh, comfortable?
I'm never comfortable.
Some people
were born to
compose music.
Others to
split the atom.
I was born
to steal shit.
Hold out
your hand.
The hand?
That coin was given
fo me by Victor when
we became partners.
The coin represents
a Russian phrase.
[speaks Russian]
Loosely translated,
"thieves' world."
Victor belongs
to it.
Now--
you belong
to it.
Psst.
Hey.
You misunderstand.
Ripley's just,
uh, business.
This is, uh--
Stalking?
Well, if
you had given
me your number,
I'd have
called first.
Those are
two very
flawed assumptions.
Do you have a vase?
I just took
these from
a roadside shrine
and I think
they need
some, uh, water.
Uh, may I use
that, uh, thing
over there?
Yeah, yeah,
of course.
You know, I
noticed this, uh,
Russian nightclub
down the block, uh,
Riga Rose, something
like that?
Why don't we
meet there,
after work?
I'm busy.
I'll wait.
I won't show.
I'll take
my chances.
[speaks Russian], Alexandra.
(Michaels)
Research, Keith Ripley.
'93, the Brooklyn Museum.
'94, the Diamond
District Warehouse,
and then in '95--
I'm very familiar
with Ripley's
life story.
In fact, I
busted him twice.
Both times he
walked because
of good lawyering.
Exactly. So I thought
why not swing for
the fences?
Murder one.
Victor Korolenko.
You're thinkin' of the
Brighton Beach
steam bath?
There was
no body.
But we got
a ton a forensics.
And no witnesses.
Nobody there
admitted to
seeing a thing.
I was this close to
convincing Korolenko
to take witness protection
in exchange for
giving up Ripley.
But Ripley got
to him first.
I can't prove it.
Alright, okay,
I see, I see.
No. What you
don't see, Michaels,
is why Ripley
got involved in
a smalltime caper
like grabbing a few
diamonds off of some
couriers on a subway.
And neither did 1.
Until I read the Dutch
guy's statement.
Those diamonds
came from Romanov's.
You mean Ripley and his
new partner are planning
to take down Romanov's?
Ah, come on.
Like that could
ever happen.
Not even Ripley
could take down
a place like that.
Wanna bet?
[dancing music]
Hi.
Hi. You know
this place
very well.
I never said I
didn't. And
let's face it,
you didn't see the
nightclub. You saw
the flyer in the fax,
and then
you made
an assumption.
Yep. Guilty.
So, I did.
Never assume anything,
especially down here.
How mysterious.
What?
Can I buy you
a drink?
I don't drink.
Another assumption.
Wanna dance?
Yeah.
I'm willing to
make a fool
of myself.
Why not?
(Alex)
Amina! Here!
[speaks Russian]
And for him.
Thank you.
Thanks.
I thought all
Russians drank.
Translation, we're
a race of
suicidal alcoholics.
No. I didn't
mean that. No.
Actually, we
are. Cheers.
Nastaravia.
Nastarovia.
Nastarovia?
Hmm.
So, how is it,
working for
the lawyer?
Hmm. I'm a
lawyer too,
you know.
Ooh. Maybe I won't say another
word because everything
I assume is wrong.
Well, you don't
know until you try.
True.
Besides, my father
warned me about
being a lawyer.
He told me I should
try and do something
honest with my life.
As if he
would know.
Your father and, uh,
Ripley, they were
close, right?
Once upon
a time.
I'm sure Ripley
told you my
father's dead.
Now Ripley likes
to try to take
care of me.
Pay for stuff.
That kind
of thing.
Of course it's
the least he
can do.
Sorry. I don't
mean to pry. And--
Yes you do.
Now who's
making assumptions?
No, Gaby. I'm
not assuming
a thing.
You wanna know
about Ripley?
Stay away.
[raps gently
on door]
You son of
a bitch.
Well, you
dropped these
and I am a gentleman
bringing them
back to you.
Uh-huh.
No, no, no.
No.
[thunder and rain]
[loud groan]
[shout]
Man! What
do you want?
I told you to
leave her alone.
I'm not gonna
tell you again.
Get dressed.
1'll be downstairs.
Son of a bitch.
Fascinating.
You could start a
whole new trend in
interior design.
What are these?
What do they
look like?
Police IDs?
There's a reception at
Romanov's tonight,
honoring the NYPD.
Our invitations
Just arrived.
Cop for the night.
All the donuts
you can eat.
Meanwhile however, I
need you to go to
the dry cleaners.
Why don't you go and pick
up your dry cleaning
yourself, sir?
Who said anything
about picking up?
You're dropping off.
(male voice)
[speaks Vietnamese]
Cell phone please.
(foreign language)
We have
networking to do.
Commissioner Rawls.
Gentlemen.
Deputy Commissioner
Morelli. Such a
pleasure having you here.
May we give you
gentlemen the
grand tour?
Oh, the secrets
of Romanov?
You might say so.
Thank you.
We're honored.
Please.
(Keith)
The guards, all
FSB Secret Police.
Every door, every
inch of glass wired
and alarmed.
So even if a bird
flies in here, they
know about it.
Topkapi.
RIfifi.
No. The bird flew
into the museum,
landed on the wire, and
set off the alarm
in Topkapi.
You're a cineaste.
Well, actually,
I only see
heist movies.
The lesson to take away
from the bird flying
into the museum is
no matter how well you've
planned, always be ready
to improvise
because I guarantee you,
something's gonna
go wrong.
I prefer
to avoid that.
Mm-hm.
How comprehensive is
the surveillance system?
Let's take
a look.
[Russian dialog]
[male voices
speak Russian]
Smart card
for the elevator.
And all
the doors.
This way.
After you.
We're on.
(Morelli)
Good to see you, old friend.
Let me introduce you.
Lieutenant Zykov.
Lieutenant Weber,
I presume.
You know, Ripley,
identity theft is
a serious crime.
An embarrassing
one in this case.
Really?
Do you realize
how ashamed
I felt,
telling that
nice young
lady at the door
that I was
still a lieutenant?
I mean at my age--
or should I say
your age?
I'm not amused.
What are you
doin' here?
And why did you appropriate
my invitation, as if
I didn't know?
I apologize for
the subterfuge.
I just wanted to show
my friend here some of
the finer things in life.
Of course if you
want to arrest us
for impersonating
police officers,
go right ahead.
I'm sure my lawyer
will have us out
in two hours.
It'd be a delightful
two hours. Get your
hands down.
Then there's all that
explaining you'd have
to do to your superiors.
Now that would
be an embarrassment.
Notorious thief gaining
admittance pretending
fo be you?
Great police
work, Weber.
We should discuss
my police work when
this is all over.
Who's your sidekick?
Jules Dassin.
Good to meet you,
Jules. I love
your movies.
Enjoy the
party, gents.
While it lasts.
Now--do you mind
telling me what
that was all about?
Just a cop.
Really?
No kidding.
We have been made in
the very place we are
supposed to take down.
Exactly how do
you stay out
of jail?
Unless of course you and
this Weber are partners,
trying to set me up.
Are you, Ripley?
[elevator ding]
Okay, thank you.
So here we go.
Come on. Move
your damn ass!
Weber has no idea
what we're
here for.
Of course he does!
He doesn't know when,
and he doesn't
know how.
No, he doesn't
know about the eggs.
No one
does. Here.
Best way to
neutralize Weber
is to fuel his
obsession with
busting me.
He is so blinded by it,
he no longer thinks
like a cop. Trust me.
Give me a good
reason to. Huh?
I already gave you
40 million good
reasons. Here.
Now that you've seen
what the public sees,
it's time for
the real treat.
As Jong
as you promise
not to come back
and rob us.
I guess /
won't take
any notes then.
[chuckles]
Our main vault.
[snaps fingers]
Gregor, disarm
the motion detectors.
Even with the
knowledge of
all protocols,
it is
absolutely impregnable.
The voice sensors ask
our head of security,
Boris Sergeev,
a random set of
prerecorded words.
But this is only
half the process.
We also have a
biometric hand
print sensor.
Since Mr. Sergeev and /
are the only ones who
have clearance,
we must both
be present to
open the vaults.
Once / activate the
biometric hand
print sensor,
he must activate
the voice sensor.
This way neither of
us can escape from
the other.
You better
hope Mr. Sergeev
stays healthy.
[laughter]
I must stay
healthy as well.
[all chuckle]
(female voice)
Hamburger.
Big Apple.
Big apple.
Jesus Christ.
The vault
door automatically
resets on the hour,
at which point,
the sensors must be
activated in reverse.
Gentlemen, best not
fo get Jocked inside.
Did I say it was
gonna be easy?
No, but you didn't
say it would be
impossible, either.
Armored glass.
It would take
a half an hour to break
through just one case.
But I'm afraid whoever
tried wouldn't even
have half a second
because an ultrasonic
motion detector
would automatically
lock him in and trigger
the alarm.
Containment security,
gentlemen.
Getting in is
highly improbable.
But getting out js
frankly impossible.
(Rawls)
Where does
that door lead?
To our inner vault, which
contains our most
precious jtems.
Sorry, but
security prevents me
from taking even
this distinguished
group in.
Now, we'll proceed
back to the reception.
I'd like
to once again,
thank you both for your
generosity these
last few days
in helping set
up all this.
(Morelli)
Thank you for the
donation of the chopper.
You're very welcome.
Let's go. We can
do this, Gabriel.
No. Absolutely not.
It was a pleasure.
Goodbye.
Wait a minute.
Nobody's going
anywhere yet.
Zykov finds that
camera, he's gonna
know what it is.
He'll change all
the protocols.
Which part of I don't
give a shit did you
not understand?
[chatter]
[gasps and groans]
I'm sorry.
Let me, let me
just handle it.
No, no, no.
Please.
Allow me.
I apologize, Sir.
[beep]
What the fuck?
(Hal)
Detective Weber,
I'm Hal Donley,
Special Agent
in charge of
this op.
You're conducting
an investigation
of a potential theft
that you assume is going
down at Romanov Jewelers.
Assume my ass.
I know it's
going down.
And I know who's
pullin' it off.
Except, we're askin'
you to call off
your dogs.
There are other matters
that take precedence.
What could possibly
fake precedence over
the potential theft
of millions
of dollars
in diamonds
from a company that
donates tons of money
and equipment to the NYPD?
Valentin?
Vitaly Zykov in
the old Soviet days
was the right hand
man to a party boss
named Dimitri Kuzin.
Kuzin set up a supposedly
independent Russian diamond
center in America.
Romanov's.
The diamonds, they're
not all that he's
shipping over here.
He's ripping off
the Russian Treasury.
Gold, gems, artworks.
Where do you
think Romanov's
got the money
to buy
your department
a helicopter?
And now
police cars?
From retail
diamond sales?
So why are
they doing this?
Is that a
serious question?
So the NYPD
will leave
them alone.
That's their mindset.
We need more time
to build our
mutual cases.
That's why we can't have
any other investigations
potentially alerting Zykov.
Lieutenant--
shut it down!
Gentlemen.
(Donley)
Commissioner.
Just in case
you think you're
smarter than us,
decide to continue
this investigation
on a down and low,
forget it. This is bigger
than you and your ego.
You get it?
I get it.
(Voutjritsas)
So what did the
Feds have to say?
Nothing. Everything's
still a go.
(Keith)
First, to bypass
the security cameras.
(Gaby)
If we can gain access
into the surveillance system,
we can replace
the light feed
with a continuous loop
of static
shots with no
face inside.
That still leaves
the voice sensors,
the fingerprints,
the motion detectors,
and the meanest looking
vault door I have ever
seen in my life.
(Ripley)
The Inner Vault Door.
Swiss made.
Three feet thick.
With spring driven
re-locking bolts.
If you punch
out the lock,
they block retraction,
so that you couldn't open
it even if you knew
the combination.
(Sergeev)
Abraham Lincoln.
(female recorded voice)
Broadway.
Thirty prerecorded
words. One week, we
got them all.
Dan McWilliams, MTA.
We're gonna be doing
maintenance work
in the subway
adjacent to your
basement next week.
We'll be
working nights
and didn't want the
drilling and what all
to alarm you.
[ting-ting]
(Gaby)
You place an ultrasonic
transducer here,
broadcasting at the exact
operating frequency of
the transmitter,
and it bounces back
the frequency to
the unit.
At least in theory.
Have you
ever used an
ultrasonic transducer?
Nope.
Can you get an
ultrasonic transducer?
I can
get anything,
my friend
Can you get
past the keypad?
It js as always,
a question of time.
One tumbler
at a time.
It is tight--
but possible.
[Russian dialog]
You.
Yeah. Me.
What's so funny?
I hate Chinese food.
I absolutely
unequivocally,
irrevocably, loathe
Chinese food.
Leonid, my boss,
is addicted to
Chinese food.
I can't even
stand the smell.
Another completely
wrong assumption.
No. It's not
completely wrong.
What?
Wow.
You stole this.
Yes I did.
Didn't you?
Yes. That's
what I do.
[heavy breathing, moans]
Wait.
[light dozing]
We have a problem.
Hm. The bracelet?
I cannot return it.
[chuckles]
No. I like it.
So. What could
possibly be
a problem?
[sigh]
You.
What?
Me.
Mm, and I thought
that part was not
a problem.
And Ripley.
That part is
a problem.
Yours and Ripley's
is a world I just
can't trust.
How did your
father die?
By gunshot.
Who did it?
He had
gambling debts
to a Russian gangster
named Nicky Petrovich.
Nicky wants
his money.
Ask him.
This concept of,
um, rorovosky.
Vorovosky mir, yes.
I'm familiar with it.
Where one is responsible
for the debts of
another one.
Why would they Kill
your father and
let Ripley live?
Because Ripley has, I
don't know, how do you
want me to put this,
earning power.
[whispers]
Gaby. I don't wanna
go to any more funerals.
I wanna be with you.
But I can't
promise you that.
And you can't
promise me a
thing, so,
maybe we shouldn't
even try.
Oh, you, you, you.
Get in.
I know you don't want to,
I know you don't mean to.
But you will hurt her.
She doesn't need
any more of that.
None of which you
had anything to do
with. Am I right?
Is there something
you wanna ask me?
Yes.
Why is Victor dead
and you're still
walking around?
I'm sure Alex told you
that Victor was in deep
to a man named
Nicky Petrovich.
What she didn't know
was Nicky was ready to
forgive the debt
if Victor
pulled a job.
This job.
Victor backed out.
He was trying
to protect Alex.
He made a deal
with Weber,
he was gonna
drop the dime
on Nicky.
And you?
And me. Weber
offered Victor
witness protection.
Me and Alex.
But Alex didn't
want to go.
Victor didn't
want to go
without her, so,
he bought
a bullet instead.
So then why
is this still
your problem?
Why don't you
Just Jeave?
You don't make a deal
with Nicky Petrovich
and then walk away.
There's no statute of
limitations. Nicky
wants those eggs.
Victor's share
would have paid
off his debt.
Victor and I were
partners. He was
responsible for me.
So now I'm
responsible for
him. And his debt.
Bullshit.
Victor is dead.
Just walk away.
It's not
an option.
Oh, wow,
this is just--
Look.
We do the job.
Nicky gets his cut.
I take a small chunk,
nowhere near
commensurate with my risk,
and you clear
a cool 20 million.
I--1 don't know.
This--this is--
Look, either we pull
this job off flawlessly,
or you call Weber
and you ask for
witness protection.
Which isn't a
choice at all.
Because Nicky will
find you and he
will kill you.
Doesn't matter where
you go, or how
long it takes.
That's an
unalterable fact.
Well, uh--
then we steal the
fucking eggs, no?
Yes.
Oh, shit.
(Gaby)
We're working
on it.
(Andrej)
[speaks Russian]
Back off, please.
Thank you.
I think he
called us
a name.
We do not like
to be insulted.
Alright.
(Unintelligible).
[distant whisper]
Do you know
the significance
of this coin?
Yeah.
Then you must know,
by the mere fact
that you have it
in your possession,
I cannot assume
the two of you
will not attempt
to double-cross me.
Nobody's gonna try
to double-cross you.
I've been
trying to--
Nicky.
Alex, I'm
SO sorry.
We're all sorry,
aren't we?
There's no reason
for you to bring
her here.
The fact that
you gave that
coin to him
tells me
there are
many reasons.
But only one
I care about.
Why would
we try to
betray you?
Ripley, in your
case perhaps
a misguided
sense of revenge.
His, perhaps
simply greed.
It doesn't matter.
I will not take the
chance of the two
of you
taking what js
rightfully mine.
And selling
it to the
highest bidder.
Um, please, uh,
excuse me, Mr.,
uh, Petrovich,
will you please?
Thank you.
Where is it written
that these eggs
are yours?
Because they
belong to
my family.
Because my great
grandfather made them.
Yes, Ripley.
Evgenly Petrovich
made them.
He made the 1917
Mystery Eggs.
I will have those eggs.
And you will get
them for me.
That's why I bring
Alexandra here,
to keep me company
while you do what
you need to do.
Go.
Anyone tries to
follow us, she dies.
You'd better
believe she dies.
[sniffs]
If I don't
get what /
want, she dies.
Go.
There's a
subway not far.
[thud]
Damn you, Gabriel.
I told you
not to get
her involved.
You told me?
You and her father
got her involved even
before she was born.
Goddamn it!
We go tomorrow!
[very loud pounding]
[loud whirring]
[loud vibration]
[groans]
[extremely loud thud]
[Russian dialog]
(Gaby)
How much time?
Just over three minutes
until the twenty-two
hundred hour check.
[whirring]
[Russian dialog]
[loud siren]
[alarm stops]
(Russian dialog)
Smart card.
Come on, come on!
Let's go.
(Russian dialog)
(female recorded voice)
Rasputin.
(Sergeev's recorded voice)
Seventeen.
Norway.
Tyi golodny?
Fuck.
It wants to know
if I'm hungry.
Are you?
Tyi golodny?
Nyet.
[loud whirring]
[whispers]
Alright.
[whisper]
Wait, wait, wait,
Go.
Stop.
Go right.
Right.
Stop.
Good.
Straight ahead.
Go, go, go.
Stop. Flatten out.
Head down, head
down, head down.
Okay. Now,
diagonally left.
Diagonally to
the left.
Keep going.
Left.
Get your arm in.
No arms/
Flat down!
(Gaby)
Oh shit!
Okay.
Straight ahead.
Go, go, go.
Go, go.
Stop. Stop.
Deploy.
Hurry.
Stop, stop. Flat, flat.
Okay, hurry.
Quick as you can.
Good.
[beep]
[beeps]
It's working!
Let's go!
Hold it, hold it,
hold it, hold it.
Lead.
Okay. Let's
take a look.
When?
Shit. Alright, sit
tight. We're on
our way.
Yes. I owe you.
Havin' a sale
at Romanov.
That was my plant.
Unexplained alarm went
off about an hour ago.
I want all available
units in the
garage now.
Vouti and Michaels,
have them meet us
at the staging area.
Now it's my turn.
We're good.
Alright.
Easy, easy,
easy, easy, easy.
You're on.
Alright.
Okay, a little more.
Ready?
A little more.
More, more, more,
more, more, more.
Stop! Okay.
Right there.
Alright. Okay.
One.
No.
Two.
Three.
No.
Four.
Hold. That's it.
Four one.
No. Four two.
No. Four three.
No. Four four.
No. Four five.
Bingo!
[siren wailing]
(Unintelligible), let's go!
Yes, sir.
Sometime tonight,
how about it?
Alright, do it.
Four five
six one two.
Got it. Got it.
Four five six
one two three.
No.
Four five six
one two four.
No. Four one six
one. Two six one
two five.
No.
Damn it.
Four five six
one two six.
Bingo. Okay. Okay.
Four five six one
two six. One.
One.
Come on.
What the fuck
are you doing?
Improvising.
Shit. Take
this shit off.
Grab it.
(Weber)
Come on, move
around this guy.
Move those guys outta
the way. Come on.
Move them away.
[clang]
[sigh]
(Ripley)
Damn.
Hmm.
Let's see if
we can move
these boxes.
Alright.
Okay.
[gun cocks]
What are you doing?
Give me the box.
Don't do this.
Give me
the box.
You want
more money?
Look around you.
Take what
you want.
Shut up
and give
me the box.
What about Alex?
Nicky will kill her,
you know that.
I will ask you
one more time.
Why are you
doing this?
[sigh]
I'm a cop.
For...
In Miami for the
last ten years.
Weber requested me.
Just for you.
So you're a cop.
Want to arrest me?
Go ahead. Where
am I gonna go?
But in one minute,
that vault door's
gonna lock
and we'll be
stuck in here.
And Alex is
gonna be dead.
I can't believe you're
such a contemptible
human being
that you would
use her like that,
and then just kill her.
‘Cause you might as
well be pullin' the
trigger yourself.
Simply to bag the
great Keith Ripley.
You sorry, sick
motherfucker.
You got 30 seconds.
How do I
find Nicky?
Phone number
in my pocket.
Give it to me.
And the eggs.
Do you want
her alive?
Or not?
Do you?
[sigh]
Ten seconds.
I'm sorry.
Underground, boys.
(officer No. 3)
Alright. Come on.
[elevator ding]
(Russian dialog)
I'm a
police officer.
Listen to me.
There is a thief
locked in your
inner vault.
The guard is in
the basement closet.
Move. Move,
move, move,
move, (unintelligible).
Now. Move. Come on.
Tell them to put
their weapons
down, now.
Now!
[shout]
Okay. Fine.
Put them down.
Now!
[speaks Russian]
Kick them. Now.
What do
you want?
You let me out
the front door, so
I can rejoin my unit.
They have the
building surrounded.
Meantime, go downstairs
you'll find your thief
and your comrade.
You understand?
That door
is alarmed.
You have a
problem, solve it.
Do not make
me shoot this
man, please.
[alarm]
[shout]
Put down
your weapons.
We are police.
Yeah? Everybody's
police tonight.
(Nicky)
Hello?
Hey. I have
what you want.
No, it's just me.
Can we talk?
I have a
proposition for you.
(Gaby)
Where is she?
(Giorgi)
Do not move.
He has a gun
behind the box.
Bad boy.
Give me the box. And
give Andrei your
weapon please.
We don't
wish trouble here.
No. You
don't understand.
You let her go,
then I'll give
you the box.
You see? If I
fire through
this box,
which I have /
have no problem
doing whatsoever,
Nicky's not going
to be very happy.
Then, we are
all expendable.
If you actually
understand the
meaning of that word.
Open the box.
Lower the gun.
Lower it.
Okay.
You alright?
Yeah. I'm just
lovely, thanks.
You go.
Give me
the box.
Get in.
Why?
Nicky wanted
fo see you.
Give me your weapon.
We're fine, right?
Where do
you get off
detaining us?
My apologies,
Lieutenant Weber.
My security were
understandably confused.
Please go with
Mr. Sergeev down
to the vault.
We have what
you want.
(Sergeev)
Please.
Where's the
other one?
Nobody else.
Just him.
Where the
hell is
my man?
[clicks tongue]
Lieutenant,
your personal life,
none of my business.
I apologize for
bringing you here.
But I had to be sure
the eggs were genuine
before /
let you go.
Your lack of trust
is really depressing,
Mr. Petrovich.
I'm a man
of my word.
She should
be with her
godfather now.
I see.
Do you mind?
Sure, call.
[cell phone rings]
Yeah.
Hello?
Hey. Where
are you?
I'm at the jail.
I had to see him.
How is he?
Well, how do
you think he is?
I had no
choice, Alex.
No one had
a choice.
Remember? I told you,
neither one of us
could promise a thing.
Listen. Promises
blow away in
the wind.
But feelings
are real.
And I need to know,
were the feelings
lies too?
Listen, listen,
what I mean is
are we real?
I gotta go, Gabriel.
Goodnight.
Wait, don't go.
Hold--/
Are you satisfied?
[shorts]
Did you see them?
Actually, we
were in a hurry.
Look.
They are
simply--wood?
Oh my God.
Simply wood?
It was 1917,
Gabriel. Russia.
People are starving.
There are no jewels,
no diamonds left.
No hope.
Yet Czarina Alexandra
had to have her eggs.
Perhaps you understand
why we had a revolution?
People needed to
believe in something.
Take him home.
Gabriel.
I know what
they say about me.
But I'm not
a killer.
Merely a
humble immigrant.
Probably much
like you.
I don't think so,
Mr. Petrovich.
You're not
like me, at all.
(Sudimack)
Excellent. Thanks.
We got Petrovich.
Snitch called it in.
You know
where he was?
I'm sure
you'll tell us.
He was sittin' on the
Boardwalk watchin'
the sun come up.
He's comin' in now.
I'll be right back.
Yeah.
What I
didn't count on
was that a
so-called professional
would be manipulated
by a chick.
What kinda cops do
they make down there
in Miami?
Good ones,
Weber, good ones.
I don't
get it.
All these years
in their world.
How do you let
an asset use you?
Sometimes things,
uh, change.
Things change?
Like, uh,
which side am
I on change?
Ripley, what is
he, your best
friend now?
Hmm, actually
a better friend
than you.
Ah, I get it.
I'm the asshole.
You're gonna tell
me what a good
guy he is,
or how he got caught
up in a situation he
couldn't control,
or how the sins
of the father--
give me
somethin' better
than things change!
All I can give
you is truth.
Ah, fuck it.
Go back to
Miami, Martin.
When your superiors
get my report, you'll be
lucky if you have a job.
We'll see.
Hey. Say
anything you
want about Ripley
but nothing changes
the fact that I
finally got him.
And when he leaves prison,
he'll be leavin' in
a pine box.
Let's go see
Mr. Petrovich.
No.
That's not
Nicky Petrovich.
What?
Not him.
Look, man, organized
crime confirmed it.
That's Nicky Petrovich.
Well, I don't care.
That's not him.
I was there,
remember?
There's no
case here.
Of course
there's a case!
Think I'm gonna put
him on the stand?
An undercover Miami
cop who may or may
not be legit?
No offense.
None taken.
A cop who's
the centerpiece
of a botched undercover
operation that was
officially stopped?
I'm not going fo
embarrass the Bureau,
much less your department
which accepted tons of
money and equipment from
the Russian Mafia.
What about Romanov's?
What about the
stolen treasures
of Russia?
What about
it, Weber?
When Zykov
found Ripley
in the vault
he had everything
cleared out before
you could get in.
(Ripley)
I have a
proposition for you.
There's no way Romanov's
will press charges
against Ripley.
‘Cause they can never
admit that the eggs
or anything else,
ever existed.
(Sudimac)
So we can't even
prove that Martin
and Ripley
stole even
a goddamn dime.
You must
have mug shots!
Russian Mafia, known
associates, something!
That's him.
That's Nicky Petrovich.
Detective Martin,
that's Victor Korolenko.
Presumed dead. We
Just never found
the body.
And you
never will.
Lieutenant.
[groan]
Weber.
What?
(Weber)
Lawyer got him
in front of a judge
on an expedited
bail hearing.
And then
he just walks.
(Gabriel)
Who was it?
Who was what?
The lawyer.
Who the fuck
do you think?
Alex Korolenko.
(Alex)
You can't promise
me a thing, so--
maybe we
shouldn't even try.
Huh.
Papa.
(Russian dialog)
[cell phone rings]
Yeah?
(Ripley)
Didn't wanna leave
without saying goodbye.
I owe you
one, Gaby.
The real
Nicky Petrovich
is the one Zykov
is funneling the
contraband through.
Well, thank you, but, uh,
Zykov and Petrovich have
gone to ground.
Check out a
disco called--
Riga Rose?
I see you're
familiar with
the territory.
Well, I am
a cop, remember?
Never forgot
it for a second.
When did
you know?
I knew you were coming
up from Miami before
you did, Gaby.
See, Weber and /--
well, let's just
say we share the
same sources.
Only I pay better.
(male pilot)
Sir, we're
good fo go.
So, why the help?
Maybe feeling guilty?
Guilt's not even
in my vocabulary.
I was just
hopin' you'd see
things differently.
Together you and I
could do anything.
Yeah. I
believe we did.
I'll get in
touch later on
if you're interested.
Meanwhile, I've got
to keep an appointment
with a man
who's gonna pay
very dearly
for something he's got
fo keep locked in
his basement
Just to say
it's his.
Good hunting, Gaby.
Wait, wait,
wait, wait,
Let me talk to her.
Just for a second.
That's him?
What makes you think
she's going anywhere?
She didn't commit
any crime.
She just lied
to someone who
was lying to her.
You be good.
I'll try,
Uncle Keith.
Although I suspect
my legal career
Just ended.
Thank God.
[Russian accent]
You come in
here every night.
And every night
I tell you
I don't
know shit from
this, uh, Petrovich.
[burps]
This is a nightclub,
my friend.
You know
what I think?
I think you need to
check out the action,
and get your ass laid.
You know what
I'm sayin', dude?
Find yourself
a chick.
Vodka.
[speaks Russian]
Russian hors d'oeuvres
to coat the stomach.
Oh. Does
my stomach
need coating?
I hope so.
I thought you
didn't drink.
You thought a
lot of things.
And I believe I
mentioned something
about making assumptions.
Maybe that's a
concept we should
get rid of.
Immediately.
My name is
Gabriel Martin.
I am from Miami.
I was actually
looking for
a lawyer.
But the office
was, uh, closed.
So, I came here.
Okay.
My name is
Alexandra Korolenko.
And I come from
St. Petersburg.
By way of
Little Odessa.
And...
I love to dance.
So, I came
here tonight.
Do you wanna
dance with me?
Yeah.
I am willing to
make a fool
of myself.
Me too.
Alex.
Yeah?
That night when I
called you from
Coney Island,
you never
answered my question.
Which one?
I wanted--I
want to know--
was it all lies?
Not the part
that matters.
That was true.
It was real.
I felt that.
Yeah, that was
real. Finally.